Document Blazor components insignificant whitespace breaking change (#19363)
dotnet/docs: includes/core-changes/aspnetcore/5.0/blazor-components-trim-insignificant-whitespace.md

### Blazor: Insignificant whitespace trimmed from components at compile time

Starting with ASP.NET Core 5.0 Preview 7, the Razor compiler omits insignificant whitespace in Blazor components (*.razor* files) at compile time. For discussion, see issue [dotnet/aspnetcore#23568](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/issues/23568).

#### Version introduced

5.0 Preview 7

#### Old behavior

> In 3.x versions of Blazor Server and Blazor WebAssembly, *.razor* files preserved whitespace in the text context of the rendered output. Consider the following Blazor component code:

Reviewer: Is "text context" correct and if so will the meaning be obvious to the intended audience?

Author: @SteveSandersonMS What's another way to describe "text context"?

Reviewer 2: Maybe phrase as something like:

> In 3.x versions of Blazor Server and Blazor WebAssembly, *.razor* components preserved any whitespace found in the source code by rendering corresponding whitespace-only text nodes in the browser's DOM.

```razor
<ul>
    @foreach (var item in Items)
    {
        <li>
            @item.Text
        </li>
    }
</ul>
```

The preceding example renders two whitespace nodes:

* Outside of the `@foreach` code block.
* Around the `<li>` element.
* Around the `@item.Text` output.

A list containing 100 items results in 402 whitespace nodes. That's over half of all nodes rendered, even though none of the whitespace nodes visually affect the rendered output.

> When rendering static HTML for components, whitespace inside a tag header wasn't preserved. For example, view the source of the following rendered component. You'll notice that whitespace wasn't preserved.

Reviewer: It looks to me like whitespace **is** preserved

Reviewer 2: @tdykstra If you put `<foo        bar="baz"     />` inside a `.razor` file, then the prerendered output should look something like `<foo bar="baz" />`. Are you finding otherwise?

Reviewer: I'm not using Blazor at all, I'm just judging from what I see in the text and example.  The text says there will be no whitespace, and then the example has whitespace.

Reviewer 2: I guess the original phrasing is confusing. It says `view the source of the following rendered component`, and then gives source code for a component (*not* the rendered output). The source code itself isn't rendered; you're meant to render that source code and then see there's no whitespace in the result.

Over to @scottaddie for possibly clarifying the original phrasing :)

### Blazor: Insignificant whitespace trimmed from components at compile time

Starting with ASP.NET Core 5.0 Preview 7, the Razor compiler omits insignificant whitespace in Blazor components (*.razor* files) at compile time. For discussion, see issue [dotnet/aspnetcore#23568](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/issues/23568).

#### Version introduced

5.0 Preview 7

#### Old behavior

In 3.x versions of Blazor Server and Blazor WebAssembly, whitespace is honored in a component's source code. Whitespace-only text nodes render in the browser's Document Object Model (DOM) even when there's no visual effect.

Consider the following Blazor component code:

```razor
<ul>
    @foreach (var item in Items)
    {
        <li>
            @item.Text
        </li>
    }
</ul>
```

The preceding example renders two whitespace nodes:

* Outside of the `@foreach` code block.
* Around the `<li>` element.
* Around the `@item.Text` output.

A list containing 100 items results in 402 whitespace nodes. That's over half of all nodes rendered, even though none of the whitespace nodes visually affect the rendered output.

> When rendering static HTML for components, whitespace inside a tag wasn't preserved. For example, view the source of the following rendered component:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When rendering static HTML for components, whitespace inside a tag wasn't preserved. For example, view the source of the following component:
```

```razor
<foo        bar="baz"     />
```

> You'll notice that whitespace wasn't preserved. The pre-rendered output is:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Whitespace isn't preserved. The pre-rendered output is:
```
